Hello and welcome back to the Course on.
And today we're going to look at the world of transactions and UTX souls in blotching.
So it's a very interesting field a very interesting concept and I never thought it was this different
to normal transactions but it actually is a whole new world and today we're going to uncover everything.
All right so let's get started.
Transactions and UTX souls.
So we'll find out what you take so stance for a second.
Cornell let's imagine that we start off with some transaction.
So although after I started using bitcoin the fall I received the following transaction.
So Mark sent me zero point one bitcoin at LUNs and me 0.3 Bitcoin.
Ellen sent me is 3.6 Bitcoin and Susan's and we 0.7 Bitcoin.
So all of those are different transactions that happened in the bitcoin block chain and they all are
all related to me.
I receive bitcoins and all of the transactions.
So what those would be called in the Bitcoin world are you.
Ex-POWs which stands for unspent transaction outputs and this is where things start to get very different
to the world of banking that we're so used.
So in banking once you set a transaction that's it there's that's the transaction is done.
And you know it's recorded somewhere in song.
But in Bitcoin and transaction lives on after it's been executed until another transaction builds.
All of the UTX So from that transaction I know it's a it's a it's a lot to take in at the start.
But let's go step by step.
So let's say I've received all this money and now I want to buy a bicycle I want to buy a bicycle for
0.5 BTC.
So this is how we're going to now set up the transaction.
We need to set up a transaction for that to happen.
This is what it will look like.
So I'm going to take not just my money and use it I need to choose the transactions.
Remember we said that they live on until these be each XOs have been used up.
So I need to choose the transactions that I'm going to link into the input.
So there are inputs where I'm going to get the money I can just go into my wallet and we'll see why
in the world it's total that there is no such a thing.
This is what's important to understand that in Bitcoin there is no such a thing or in any cryptocurrency
there is no such thing as an amount lying in your account there is no account.
All of that everything we have all we have is a block chain and all the transactions all over any move
money any movement of money is a transaction on the block chain.
So we need to go back to transactions and pick the ones we want so we're going to pick this 06 BTC from
Alan that we received I received so I need to come up with 0.5 BTC.
These are everything I have available.
So I'm going to take this one because it's the closest to 0.5.
I'm going to take the 0.6 beauty series from hell and then I'm going to send it send 0.5 BTC to the
bike shop and the rule is that there cannot be any on the used outputs.
So anything that goes into the in or they going to can use the input so anything that goes into it put
the full amount has to go out but basically there can be no change you cannot just go in and say all
right I have 0.6 BTC I'm sending the report back because you know you have to send all of the 0.6.
But you can send it to different participants so what you do is you send zero 1.1 BTC back to myself.
I know it sounds very confusing but once we get to a couple of examples you will see the logic behind
it and you'll see why it works.
So there we go.
So I I have to choose one or several of the transactions that I have here to put in my inputs I have
to build my inputs to get to this amount or higher then I need to send the required amount for the merchandise
for the bike that I'm buying to the bike shop.
And then any change that I want to that I have left I cannot just leave it there.
I have to send it to myself again.
I have to send back one or I can buy something else from another shop and we'll see an example like
that later on.
But for now this is I was so surprised to see this transaction I'm taking putting in here.
So this will actually happen and then it's this transaction this new transaction is piggybacking on
this transaction so the transaction kind of like continues on and on and on and on like.
So this is action now feeds into this transaction and then and now.
Now after that happens now it's it's gone it's finished it's completed it's probably right where it's
no longer a UTF.
So it's not an unspent transaction either because it's done this transaction fed this transaction this
transaction and we're building here and now we have two new utech.
This is a huge Ekso for the bike shop.
So and that's a huge XO for me.
So that amount is going to go into the future.
So as for the bike shop and this is going to go into here and there we go.
And also I'm going to get a bike that's what I was buying.
Once everything is settled.
And so what we'll see here now if we create a list of UTX shows we'll see that Ellen is transactional
with Ellen's gone.
But now I have another you take so from me to me a transaction on 0.1 BTC that is unspent it has an
unspent transactional transaction up.
All right so that was our example with the bicycle Let's have a look another example to kind of like
concrete these things and let's say that now I want to buy a second bicycle.
Let's say that one first one was for me and I want to buy a bicycle from my dad.
And what is this transaction going to look like.
How are we going to create section.
The bicycle is more expensive.
1.1 BTC.
So if you want you can pause the video now and try this for yourself.
Try to practice it and see how to create it.
It's if you don't worry about the overall meaning of all of it is very easy to construct.
You just put that inputs calculate the outputs and send the change to yourself if there's any change
and it's very simple.
And then once you've done that and once we do it a couple times it will make it will become very clear
after a while.
How how why it's working that way.
So feel free to post a video but otherwise I'm going to continue.
So here's our transaction how we're going to construct.
We need an input we need inputs right.
Again we cannot just go to our account and say I'm taking this much money out of my account.
It doesn't work that way.
We have to finish off.
We have to.
What's a good analogy.
Like we have to kill off I guess we have to kill off these UTX so that we have left.
So there's just sitting there and these transactions the only way they will come to an end is when they
feed new transactions.
So this is election and we're going to be building.
Who's going to feed it.
Well we need to build quite a large amount so we're going to take this transaction or here we'll take
the UTX out from this transaction.
So the 0.3 Beatty's here goes from Atlanta will also it'll feed.
So this will I hope will feed into the one rebuilding the 0.7 BTC from Susan will be feed into this
was actually rebuilding and the 0.1 BTC that I said to myself will also feed into this transaction.
So we got three inputs and now the output is as you can see the total is exactly what we need.
Output is going to all go to the bike shop.
There's nothing left so we don't need to add any additional outputs there's no change to center ourselves
and that's it.
That's that's how we're going to search engines.
And once this transaction goes in the bloodshed this will be removed.
This will be it will be removed.
It will just be no longer be considered a Yuichi so because it will be obvious that this transaction
they later fed into this transaction.
This was actually later fed into this and this was action fit into that one so there no longer is anything
left.
And on the other hand the bike shop will have a UTX so the bike shop will have received this money and
now they have it as a result of this transaction.
The bike shop has its own that will go into there.
Ill to be a blotching but whenever they calculate the UTX so they'll see this as you take.
So until it feeds into something else I will get a bike and so now if we recalculate excels you will
see that I only have one you take so left.
So all of those things will go into the books.
But once you go to the bloodshed you'll see that they've all canceled each other out and they're all
fed into each other in a way and the result for me is that I only have one UTX all with 0 1 1 2 1 1
B C and that he's considered my balance kind of like there is no balance but you can think of it as
a balance but it's actually takes on.
So there we go that's how it is executed and you take those work.
I know this might still be vague might not be like it might it might take some time to get your head
around this.
So maybe like with different talk about this in the next tutorial and the one after that so there's
too much tutorials of practice don't worry coming up everything will be clear for sure but in the meantime
if you want to practice yourself then just make something up like I did here.
As if somebody sent you money.
Look at the sales.
Think of something you want to buy and see how you build that transaction.
Do it a couple of times it will really help to get head around it.
And but otherwise I'll see you in the next tutorial and we'll continue with Journey on that note I look
forward to see you next time.
Until then enjoy bludgeons.